We're now ready to start setting up some ECS clusters.
And the first one we're going to do is an ECS Fargate cluster.
So you remember this is the one where you don't manage the EC2 instances you don't see them.
You create a cluster and a service and then tasks and everything else is managed for you.
Let's go into the console and what we're going to do is we're just going to use this get started with
it.
Now we're going to use multiple methods for creating ECS clusters both using the Fargate launch type
and EC2 launch type.
This Wizard is a very simple way of just getting something running but we're going to go into lots more
detail throughout this section so you will see how to do it from the command line and from the console.
But just for now we're going to go use this really simple wizard which sets up a sample application
and that sample application is just going to be an instance of Apache.
I'm going to leave the defaults and we can see it uses a first-run task definition.
So this is one which is just already there for you in your account.
We're going to use VPC mode.
It's going to create a new task execution role and it's going to be a Fargate type.
Let's collect next you could attach an elastic load balancer here and you only have the option for application
load balancer.
But we're not going to do that.
We will do that later in this section.
We just need to give this a name and I'm going to call it DCT going to stop it from checking my spelling
Fargate.
And it's going to create a new VPC and subnets for us to collect next we can now see what's going to
be created.
So there's a cluster there's a service there's a task definition and as a container definition if you
remember from the logical diagram earlier we showed what our task definition looks like and within a
task definition you actually have container instances.
And if you saw the full task definition for this and we'll we'll go through this and actually create
a wordpress task later in this section you'll see that there's a mysql database that goes along
with this so you can have multiple containers within a task definition
let's come back to the console and everything is fine so we're just going to click Create.
Now what's actually happening here while this is all creating is it's going to leverage the cloudformation
service.
Now we haven't covered cloudformation in this course yet but it's an infrastructure as code service
where you're able to create your clusters and your infrastructure through code.
It actually uses some files where everything is declared in a JSON or YML template.
And then that template can then be used to create what's called a stack.
And so you can see this actually happening now where we've got to create in progress.
And so we have this stack that's being created.
We can go to events and you can actually see what's happening.
So if we go down we can see all the various different tasks that are happening VPC is being created
and Internet gateways going be attached subnets are going to be created and so on.
So the whole environment is set up for us and can be torn down for us as well automatically.
You can see the list of the resources that are being created.
You can see some outputs if they're defined.
You can see the parameters and this is where you have options to change for instance your subnet block
and your VPC side.
You can change your instance roles here and that kind of thing.
So that's a very powerful technology and you can even use it to detect drift.
So your infrastructure is defined through the template.
And then if you make changes to the configuration you can get cloud formation to check and see whether
what's changed it can give you a report and let you know what's happened.
That only took a few minutes and now we can see that our create is complete and back in the ECS management
console now and we can see that we have a cluster called DCT Fargate and we have a service and a running
task running under the Fargate launch type.
You could also have the EC2 launch type having services and tasks running in the same cluster let's
go into this cluster and have a look.
So we have a sample app service.
And if we click on the app service we can see the tasks that are running we can have a look at events
we can configure.
Auto scaling we'd have to click update
we can have a look at the task placement strategies
and you can have a look at metrics apply tags and view logs.
That's the service.
If we come back up a level we can go in and see tasks.
And again this is where we can see our task.
If you go to AC That's instances you don't see anything.
If this was an EC2 launch type cluster you'd see your instances here.
And indeed if we go over to the EC2 management console you're not going to see anything running.
If this was an EC2 launch type you'd have your EC2 instances running there with the cluster
agent installed let's just get back to where we were and what I want to do is I'm going to head into
this task and I can grab the public IP address of the task and if we just open another tab here we can
see that we have a sample app running on ECS.
So it's as simple as that.
That's just running on Apache on ECS and if we go down here we can have a look at container.
So you got your task with your task configuration then you got your container configuration.
And in here you can run a docker CMD command when you start your instance.
You can see some information about the CPU units that are allocated to it.
These are known as shares and you can see the memory allocation as well.
That's all we're going to do in this lab.
What I'm going to do now is delete the cluster and you just have to click delete cluster and then type
delete me and this will now use cloudformation to remove this configuration.
So if we go back into the console in another tab and I'll head over to cloudformation and what we'll
see is a delete in progress and if we look into events we can now see what's happening and it's
actually removing that cluster.
So that won't take long and it will clean up all the resources that were created.